# Introducing – the Outbreak Data Analysis Platform (ODAP) partnership (for a scientific audience) 
> 
> See also: [Information for the public](Information_for_the-public)
> 

During the COVID-19 pandemic, the UK has generated several globally unique research data assets that have enabled critical discoveries which have shaped the COVID-19 response in the UK and globally. Examples of these data assets include sequencing of the SARS-CoV-2 virus itself, sequencing of the DNA of patients with severe COVID-19 in intensive care, and the systematic capture of detailed clinical record information. While each of these data sets alone have generated transformational knowledge - conducting joint analysis of multiple data sets has the potential to yield further significant discoveries.  

The ODAP partnership aims to facilitate vital research on the impact of SARS-CoV-2 genetic and phenotypic variation on disease severity and vaccine efficacy by creating additional data linkages, automating data flows and analyses, and democratising access to research datasets with full agreement from the contributing studies. ODAP partnership is an overarching grouping of UK data generators and provides oversight, strategic guidance and governance to the ODAP platform.  

The UKRI-supported Outbreak Data Analysis Platform (ODAP) ([isaric4c.net/ap](https://isaric4c.net/ap)) based at the University of Edinburgh is a trusted research environment (TRE) that holds the data securely allowing academic and public health researchers access to the data following a ‘five safes’ (http://www.fivesafes.org) research application and governance process.  

The ODAP holds unique aggregation of UK sovereign data assets, including the complete data resources of the ISARIC4C/CO-CIN (clinical characterisation of COVID-19 patients), GenOMICC (host genetics of severe COVID-19 patients), PHOSP (follow up of COVID-19 patients), HEAL COVID (trial), and UK-CIC (immunology of COVID-19 patients) studies, together with COG-UK (SARS-CoV-2 viral sequence from ~15% of all cases) data from England and Scotland, and linkage to the RECOVERY trial, NHS clinical records, national vaccination records, critical care audit data (SICSAG) and mortality records. Linkage to ICNARC CMP has already been agreed. 

Once granted access researchers for a defined research project they can then make use of multiple datasets in the ODAP, handling sensitive data in the trusted research environment and then exporting deidentified (e.g. anonymous) summary data over to a high-performance computing space where it can be analysed along with non-sensitive data such as human and viral genomes.  